2025 Year In Review by Vincent De Smet, published on December 25, 2025.

Section 1: TerraConstructs Milestones.

At the start of 2025, I launched the first iteration of the TerraConstructs website, and so much has happened since! The project continues to grow and gained its first community contributions.

The first milestone was launching the first iteration of the TerraConstructs website in early 2025. By July I had also converted enough L2 AWS Constructs to run the full CDK Workshop on CDKTF.

Having managed AWS resources with raw Terraform since 2016 and explored popular tooling such as Terragrunt for several large-scale AWS deployments, I am excited to have the AWS CDK developer experience for myself and the product teams I work with, living cleanly side-by-side with all existing Terraform automation, linting, and collaboration setups.

For the second iteration of the TerraConstructs website, I incorporated feedback and focused on a much clearer project overview and mission statement. This iteration gave me my first taste of building more advanced UX with LLMs (mostly Codex CLI at the time). As someone who hasn't done modern frontend web development, being able to create the live step-through was very empowering!

The main purpose of the landing page is to provide a visual overview of what it feels like to define your infrastructure using this library of L2 Constructs, as well as to show how much Terraform configuration it handles for you!

Section 2: Public Speaking.

At the DevOps Days Singapore conference, in May, Charles Martinot and I presented an LLM-driven workflow to automatically port AWS CDK L2 constructs on top of CDKTF at DevOps Days Singapore. The presentation was divided into two parts:

First Part: Highlighting the importance of higher-level programming languages in Infrastructure as Code.

 In this part, we wanted to showcase the difference in developer experience between classic Terraform modules and the expressiveness and convenience of the powerful L2 Constructs within the AWS CDK library.

Second Part: Sharing the different steps involved in Retrieval-Augmented Generation for porting those powerful AWS CDK L2 Constructs to CDKTF.

 In this part, we broke down how we built a custom workflow to craft the LLM context and prompts using what were then state-of-the-art LLMs such as Gemini 2.5 Pro (and its 1 million token context window).
 
 Building the custom workflow involved steps such as:
1. Doing initial exploration of relevant reference data and LLM provider APIs such as OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google Gemini
2. Researching Chunking strategies for embedding and querying Terraform Provider AWS resources using vector stores
3. Building Human-in-the-loop and deterministic workflows on top of Mastra AI
4. Researching the role of judges and evals in validating LLM responses as well as preparing sample datasets and human judge benchmarks
5. Setting up troubleshooting and observability of LLM workflows using a local SigNoz stack

 The framework presented is available as open source at TerraTitan and is a crucial part of accelerating the development of the TerraConstructs library.

At the Test Automation Summit in Singapore, I shared a practical journey through infrastructure testing strategies.

This presentation contents included:
1. An introduction to the concepts of IaC and Terraform for an audience focused on test automation
2. An introduction to the concept of trunk-based development and feature flags applied to Terraform modules
3. An overview of Terraform's built-in test commands
4. An overview and comparison of the Terratest Go testing framework

And finally, Highlights of TerraConstructs' usage of snapshot and unit testing as made possible by tooling in the CDK ecosystem

In June, Maksim Skutin and I presented at AWS Community Day Singapore about "Next-Gen Infrastructure as Code: Scaling Smart with Pulumi & CDK". We shared how each of us approached Infrastructure as Code using higher-level programming languages (TypeScript, Go, etc.) and what our framework of choice gave us.

Maksim shared how his team scaled Pulumi to manage thousands of resources with speed and compliance. I shared how we evolved a 3-year footprint of Terraform modules and HCL into a higher-level, product-engineer-friendly framework leveraging CDKTF and TerraConstructs.

Both of us shared practical ways to transition AWS IaC smoothly, along with plenty of Day 2 tips and tricks.

In September, Zack Hee and I presented at AWS Community Day Kuala Lumpur with a deeper dive on exactly how we at handshakes.ai leveraged CDKTF and TerraConstructs. This expanded presentation focused on: Why frameworks in the CDK ecosystem make the most sense for managing IaC to us and our engineers.

Using the newly launched TerraConstructs website for a customized, live step-through demo showing what writing IaC using TerraConstructs looks like, providing visual insight into the benefits compared to raw Terraform.

We also shared how we structure our Git repositories and AWS environments to ensure our product engineers can use AWS as an extension of their workstation and iterate quickly on cloud resource configuration.

We discussed how we promote features and fixes from dev, across staging, to production environments leveraging well-understood, best-in-class software delivery mechanisms such as:

1. Monorepo projects using pnpm workspaces and TurboRepo
2. A Private npm registry hosted in AWS CodeArtifact
3. Change and release management using Changesets for automated version bumping and changelog generation

And finally, Atlantis with pre-workflow hooks to manage raw HCL and CDKTF side by side with pull request automation

Aside from these conference presentations, I participated in shorter sharing sessions at the CodeLeap office and for the Vietnam Open Infra Ho Chi Minh City community where I reiterated on the concepts of RAG and the practical steps involved in building TerraTitan. Links to these brownbags are included on the blog post.

Section 3: Workshops.

I built and published The AWS CDK Workshop in Terraform.

By July, I had leveraged TerraTitan and spent considerable time manually tuning unit tests and integration tests to ensure full coverage of AWS SNS, DynamoDB, code asset bundling, and more.

This culminated in the release of the TerraConstructs AWS CDK Workshop. This workshop is the full original CDK Workshop, fully working on top of Terraform Provider AWS using CDKTF.

I delivered this workshop internally at handshakes.ai and will be expanding it further in 2026 as I take on a more prominent role maintaining and advocating for CDKTF since HashiCorp/IBM sunset the project.

Section 4: Podcasts.

For the last few months of 2025, I have been catching up with Kai Hendry to discuss events happening in the IaC and LLM space.

Links to the following podcasts are available in the blog post:

- Terralith: the Future of Terraform Automation and Collaboration?
- What is Spec-Driven Development
- Infrastructure as Code & Platform teams
- Who is Vincent De Smet & What is the Grid
- Trunk based infrastructure with feature flags
- AI for Infrastructure Engineers
- Adopting AI with Steve Yegge's beads issue tracker, SpecKit, Agent Shells.

and many more similar podcasts

Section 5: Looking Forward.

Going into 2026, a lot has changed; however, my primary focus remains the same: "Bringing a better developer experience for managing Infrastructure as Code"

My milestones to achieve this are:
- As a core maintainer of CDK for Terraform: update the CDKTF core from its current Terraform 1.6 pin to the latest Terraform and OpenTofu versions
- Quickly ramp up AWS CDK coverage in TerraConstructs by updating TerraTitan with the latest advances in agentic programming
- Have TerraConstructs target other Terraform providers to manage everything that currently falls outside of AWS CDK tooling
- And continue to run community workshops and share how to truly treat Infrastructure as Code (and not just config)

Thank you for listening to this blog post, do review the page for detailed links and visuals.
